Step 1: Install Visual Studio Code and set up the Python environment by following 
the instructions provided in the PowerPoint presentation: "VS Code and Python Installation on Windows.pptx."

Step 2: Navigate to the folder containing the Smart Face Attendance System. In the address bar of the file explorer, 
remove the path and type cmd, then press Enter. This will open the command prompt in the current directory.then type code .
in command for opening vs code.

Step 3: Open Visual Studio Code, then launch the terminal by navigating to View > Terminal or pressing `Ctrl + ```. In the terminal, 
execute the following command to install the required dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

Step4:After installed necessary package for run the code then need to follow below code 

First, run the unknown_face_enroll.py script(py unknown_face_enroll.py).E.g( py unknown_face_enroll.py --id  unknown  --name  unknown)
This script is used to store predictions of unknown individuals. 
If a person is not already enrolled in the system, they will be identified and recorded as "unknown" 
during the prediction process.

Ensure the Dataset and Configurations are Properly Set Up Before Running enroll.py

Dataset Folder:
Verify that the dataset folder does not contain any images before running the enroll.py script.
If there are any images present in the folder, they must be deleted to avoid conflicts during enrollment.
Config File Setup:

Navigate to the config folder and locate the config.json file.
Ensure the file is empty of data and has the following default structure:

E.g:
{
    "_default": {},
    "student": {}
}

once everything you check it in the configuration file then need to run enroll.py(py enroll.py)
after that it opens tkinter window for enrolling face (must be fill with person name and along with id) after that click to start enroll process

1.first you need to enroll your face  
this will collect your face 30 
and save your id and name in database
the 30 face images will be saved in dataset according to id

once enrollment process is completed then you can exit from the window


note:make sure that when run enroll.py only one face to be there when detect face for storing same person id in the folder otherwise 
attendance will mismatch

2. you have to encode the face encodings encode_faces.py (py encode_faces.py)
this will locate facial embedding feature  and return them

#note 
before running this code delete the existing file in output file

to run this code --> py encode_faces.py 
it will generate a encodings.pickle file in output

3. then we have to train the encodings.pickle 

to run the code --> py train_model.py 
it will generate a two pickle file named recognize and le in output

now you have finshed generating a face regn model 

4. we can now recognize the enrolled faces
bfore run below set of intrustion attendance.json should be removed from the folder

to run the code -- > py recognition.py
